Comprehensive two-wheeler insurance is a package that offers insurance coverage for the loss/damage incurred by the insured’s two-wheeler as well as for third-party liabilities. It is an all-inclusive two wheeler insurance plan.
Policyholders can customise and enhance the coverage offered by a comprehensive policy with the help of a number of add-ons covers such as Zero Depreciation Cover, Roadside Assistance Cover, NCB Cover, Bi-fuel Kit Cover etc.

What Is Covered Under Comprehensive Two-wheeler Insurance Policy?
Get a comprehensive two-wheeler insurance quote online today. Don't forget to explore the following advantages of buying a comprehensive two-wheeler insurance policy.

Damage or Loss Due to Natural Calamity: Any damage or loss occurring to the insured bike because of any natural calamity like typhoon, cyclone, flood, hurricane, storm, inundation, tempest, hailstorm, landslide etc will be covered under a comprehensive two-wheeler insurance plan.
Damage or Loss Due to Manmade Calamity: Any damage or loss occurring to the insured bike because of any man-made calamity like a riot, any malicious act, terrorist activity, strike, damage caused during transit by rail, inland waterway, road, lift, air, water etc will be covered under a comprehensive two-wheeler insurance plan.
Own Damage Cover: With the help of this cover, the insured vehicle is offered protection against any loss or damage caused to it because of any theft, natural calamity, man-made calamity, fire, explosion etc.
Third-Party Liability: Any loss or damage suffered by a third party person or third party property due to an accident or mishap with insured vehicle is covered under the comprehensive insurance plan.
Theft: In case, the insured motorbike gets stolen, coverage is offered to the insured vehicle.
Explosion and Fire: Under a comprehensive insurance plan, coverage is offered for any loss or damage caused because of self-ignition, fire, or an explosion.

What are the Benefits of Buying a Comprehensive Bike Insurance Plan?
Getting your bike insured under an all encompassing, comprehensive bike insurance plan can give you the peace of mind and help you in staying worry free from protecting your bike, rider’s safety, any liabilities that can incur the damage or loss of third party be it third party property or person. Some of the benefits of buying a comprehensive bike insurance plan in India are as follows:

A comprehensive bike insurance plan offers compensation to the policyholder for any expenses incurred by he/she towards the repair of insured bikes.
It offers coverage against loss or damage incurred because of any natural calamities such as tsunami, earthquake, flood, hurricane, etc.
It offers protection to the insured bike against any damage or loss caused because of manmade activities like burglary, theft, riots, etc.
This insurance plan also offers coverage to the rider for any kind of personal injuries incurred due to an accident at the time of riding the bike. Moreover, it is not important for the rider to be the policyholder. If the rider is holding a valid driving license, then the insurance provider would offer compensation for medical assistance.
Under a comprehensive bike insurance plan, a policyholder not only receives compensation for medical treatment of the rider incurred due to an accident but it also provides financial assistance for complete or partial physical disability of the rider. Also, it offers a death benefit in the event of death of the rider.
Other than the above benefits, a comprehensive bike insurance plan also offers coverage against any legal liabilities incurred towards any third party during any mishap or accident. This plan offers coverage towards both vehicle loss, property damage, death, physical injuries to the third party caused due to the fault of insured vehicle.
Significance Of IDV While Selecting The Bike Insurance Policy
IDV stands for Insured Declared Value. It is the maximum amount that your insurance company would be providing you, in case your two-wheeler gets stolen or gets completely damaged. Premiums are an important aspect to be considered while choosing a bike insurance policy but do not forget to check the Insured declared value of your bike prior to buying an insurance policy. Also, it is highly recommended to select a higher IDV as at the time of complete loss of your two-wheeler, a high IDV would mean a higher reimbursement amount.

What Add-ons Can You Buy with Comprehensive Bike Insurance?
The add-ons covers are designed to enhance the coverage of an insurance policy. They offer flexibility to insurance plans by allowing its policyholders to select and pick a cover to boost coverage and different aspects of a plan based on their suitability. Below given are some of the add-on covers which can be included in a comprehensive bike insurance cover:

Claim Settlement Assistance – With the online purchase, you can get assistance while making a claim for your bike or two-wheeler for its settlement.
Anytime Online Support – The online support is always available on the website of the insurer or insurance platforms to help you with any insurance-related query through chatbox, email, etc.
How to Buy A Comprehensive Bike Insurance Policy?
To buy a comprehensive bike insurance plan is quite and you just have to follow the below-given steps to purchase a comprehensive bike insurance policy online:

Step 1: Visit the official website of InsuranceDekho

Step 2: In the ‘Get Your Quote’ section provide your bike registration number or other details such as its make, model, variant, year of registration and so on, and then select ‘proceed’.

Step 3: Enter your personal details, i.e., your name and your mobile number after which various policy quotes for comprehensive bike insurance policies will be displayed on your screen.

Step 4: Compare the bike insurance policy quotes and select a plan which suits your needs and budget the most.

Step 5: Make the payment for the insurance policy of your choice. After the payment, the policy document will be sent to your registered email ID.