stand alone insurance:
Own Damage Two Wheeler Insurance - An OD bike insurance is a type of bike insurance plan which provides an insurance cover only for your bike’s own damages. The plan safeguards your bike against own damages incurred due to accidents, natural calamities, man-made disasters, fire, theft as well as damages incurred in transit.
The standalone own damage bike insurance plan came into existence in September 2019 after the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) allowed its purchase.

What are the Features of Own Damage Cover in a Bike insurance Plan?
The features of own damage cover in a bike insurance plan are as follows:

Under this insurance plan, the policyholder receives coverage for both insured vehicles along with the third-party liability.
Own damage insurance is extensive, wherein an individual can select add-on riders in order to enhance their basic insurance plan coverage.
The premium paid against own damage insurance is a bit on the higher side as compared to the third party bike insurance plan.
Under this plan, the insured bike receives coverage against natural calamities, man-made calamities and also damage from any third party due to any accident or mishap with the insured bike is also covered.

Factors Affecting Own Damage Bike Insurance Premium
The premium in a Standalone Own Damage bike insurance policy is calculated mainly by your bike’s IDV and bike’s cc. Other than this, the factors mentioned below are also considered at the time of calculating the premium for your own damage cover:

Bike CC: The bike cc determines the speed of the vehicle and thus, the risk associated with your bike. Thus, your bike’s cc would also affect your own damage premium. Higher is your bike’s cc, higher would be your own damage premium and vice versa.
Insured Declared Value: The Insured Declared Value or IDV gives reference to the correct market value of your vehicle. Thus, your IDV would greatly influence the Own damage premium paid by you towards your bike insurance cover.
No Claim Bonus: In case you previously had your own damage bike insurance cover under your comprehensive bike insurance policy and you have not made any claims till now, then this accumulated NCB discount can be transferred to your present Own Damage premium.

What Is Covered Under Standalone Own Damage Cover for Two Wheeler Insurance?
A standalone OD bike insurance plan provides coverage for the following:

1. Accidental Damages - This plan gives coverage for the damages sustained by your bike in an accident or collision.

2. Natural Disasters - A standalone own damage plan keeps your bike insured against damages incurred in earthquakes, floods, cyclones, and other natural calamities.

3. Man-Made Disasters - The plan also keeps you insured against damages incurred in strikes, riots, explosions, and other man-made disasters.

4. Theft - A standalone own damage plan also keeps you insured against theft of your bike.

5. Fire - This plan also covers the own damages caused to your bike by fire and explosions.

What Is Not Covered Under OD Bike Insurance?
The following things are not covered in standalone own damage two-wheeler insurance:

1. Third Party Liability - Only the losses or damages caused to own vehicle is covered under standalone own damage bike insurance. It does not offer coverage for third party losses or damages.

2. Consequential Damages - Damages that have been caused to the bike consequently and not during an accident are not covered under standalone own damage.

3. Contributory Negligence - In case the policyholder does something on purpose that they were not supposed to do, then in that case their two-wheeler would not get covered. For instance, it is raining heavily and the whole city is flooded and if the policyholder still went out on their two-wheeler for a ride which consequently leads to the damages.

Benefits of Two-Wheeler Own Damage Insurance
A standalone own damage two-wheeler insurance plan offers the following benefits to policyholders:

1. Option of Different insurers
With the introduction of standalone own damage bike insurance plans, the bike insurance policyholders can now opt for a third party insurance cover and an own damage insurance cover from different insurance providers of their choice.

2. Flexibility in Tenure of Own Damage Plan
The new bike owners are no more bound to purchase a long-term comprehensive insurance policy due to the compulsion of holding a long-term third party plan. Now, they can now have a long-term third-party insurance plan of 5 years and a standalone own damage plan of 1 year, which they can renew every year.

3. Economical
With the breakup of long-term comprehensive insurance plan into long-term third-party insurance and short-term own damage plan, the insurance plans have now become economical for the policyholders. Also, the policyholders can buy their own damage policy from the insurers providing the most affordable insurance offers that can enhance their financial benefits.

Who Should Buy a Standalone Own Damage Two Wheeler Insurance?
A standalone own-damage cover will compensate the policyholder for losses including accidental damages, damages due to transit, theft or vandalism, natural calamities and man-made disasters. However, the limit to the compensation you can receive depends on the insured declared value of two wheeler. The IDV, in turn, is heavily determined by the depreciation rate which gets higher with the bike’s age.