Third party two wheeler insurance:
Third-party two-wheeler insurance provides coverage to the third party that has suffered a loss in an accident with the insured two-wheeler. It does not provide insurance protection to the bike or the owner. Cover for third party liability involving the insured two-wheeler is mandatory. Third-party liability insurance can be bought easily with minimal documentation. It is the most economical form of motor insurance.

Documents required for Third Party Insurance Renewal
Existing policy for reference
Registration Certificate of your Two-Wheeler
Debit Card/Net Banking details for payment
Third Party Two-Wheeler Insurance Coverage:
Bodily injury or death to third party:

If your two-wheeler is responsible for causing bodily injuries or death to a third party, the injured individual/s can claim medical costs through your third-party insurance policy in case he/she is handicapped or not in a position to work. You will also receive a compensation for physical disabilities.

Property damage:

A third-party insurance policy covers damages to the property of a third party if it is caused by your two-wheeler. IRDAI norms state that damages to property will be covered to the extent of Rs.1 lakh under a third-party two-wheeler insurance plan.

Permanent total disability of driver or bike owner*:

In case you drive the insured vehicle or own it and sustain permanent total disability, you can claim compensation under your two-wheeler insurance policy. 100% of the sum assured will be paid out in the case of death, loss of sight of both eyes or one limb, loss of two limbs, and sight of one eye. 50% of the sum assured will be paid out in case of loss of sight of one eye or loss of one limb, and 100% of the sum assured will be paid out as compensation for permanent total disablement from injuries apart from those mentioned above.

Death of driver or bike owner*:

In case you meet with an accident that results in your untimely demise, your dependents will be able to claim compensation for the sudden loss of income.

*Some insurers offer the above personal accident cover as default in the third-party insurance:

What is Not Included under a Third Party Insurance
Third-party insurance comes with a few limitations. You must be aware of the exclusions of your third-party insurance policy to avoid any confusion when making a claim. The following situations can result in rejection of a claim:

You won’t get any coverage from your third-party insurance for the loss or damage of your insured two-wheeler.
Your claim will be rejected for drunk driving or driving without a valid driving licence.
Third-party insurance policy does not cover any claims occurring because of contractual liabilities.
Any accidents occurring beyond the geographical limitations of the policy's coverage are not eligible for claims.
Third-party insurance policy will not cover any claims that arise due to loss or damage by radioactive contamination, war or war like conditions.

Two-Wheeler Insurance Renewal
A policyholder must renew their insurance policy before its expiry date. It is pertinent to ensure that your vehicle is safeguarded all through its lifetime against a variety of incidents causing financial losses. Policyholders can likewise hold the No Claim Bonus (NCB) and make use of discounts obtained using the same.

Prior to your insurance policy lapses, contact your insurance agency and inform them about the same. Also enquire if it is needed to get the vehicle assessed for which the insured will be required to plan a meeting with an assigned agent of the insurance company. If you wish to switch your policy from one insurer to another. The NCB can also be retained if you renew the policy within 90 days from the date of expiry.

How to Renew Two-Wheeler Insurance Policy Online?
Getting your motorcycle insured isn’t optional any longer. It is an absolute necessity if you value your expensive vehicle and your own life. With digitalisation touching each facet of life, insurance companies too have gained an impressive ground in making the purchase and renewal process much easier.

You may compare different available policies in various third-party insurance and finance websites and choose the policy that best meets your requirements. However, you must not blindly select a policy based on its premium cost and look for important factors such as the coverage offered, exceptions of the policy and so on.

Things To Remember for Bike Insurance Renewal
Renew well ahead of time and monitor the expiry date of the policy to avoid riding without an insurance.
Discover and compare various motor insurance policies in India before renewing your policy. You may find a superior policy that offers you greater coverage at a lesser premium.
Bear in mind to make use of the No Claim Bonus (NCB) if there was no claim made from your end.

How a Long-Term Two-Wheeler Insurance Policy Can Be Beneficial
Most people in India ignore to renewing bike insurance policies as they find it hard to recall dates of policy expiry. As a result, they run into the risk of riding uninsured. For many such individuals, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has permitted insurers to offer long term motor insurance policies. With this move, the IRDAI plans to encourage vehicle owners to have a backup mechanism to safeguard them from in a variety of misfortunes that may occur while riding their vehicles. A policy can be bought for a period of up to three years.

Documents Needed for Motor Insurance Policy Renewal
Policyholders nowadays do not need to keep running from counter to counter with several documents to renew their insurance policies. The whole process can now be done online without any hassles. The online policy renewal may also save you from vehicle inspection and may get you several discounts on renewal. The following documents and details are needed to renew a two-wheeler insurance policy online:

Details of the policyholder: Name, date of birth, address of residence, details of the occupation, and gender.
Copy of driving license
Registration Certificate of the vehicle and registration number
Address proof
Policy number of the existing insurance policy
Passport size photographs
Documents Required to Change Two-Wheeler Insurance Provider
At times, you might want to change your two-wheeler insurance provider due to the benefits, premium, or coverage provided by other insurance companies. The list of documentation is slightly different if you wish to shift from one insurance provider to another when renewing your two-wheeler insurance policy. To change your two-wheeler insurance provider, you will need the following documents:

Identity proof – Aadhaar card/Passport/Voter’s ID/Driving Licence/Ration card
Registration Certificate
Passport size photographs
Address proof - Aadhaar card/Passport/Driving Licence/Voter’s ID/Ration card
A copy of the existing insurance policy