Contents Insurance:
It is not just the house, that you have insured, but also the contents inside the house on which you would have spent a lot of time and money deserve equal protection. This type of home insurance policy protects the goods inside your house from damages and loss owing to theft, fire, flood and other such mishaps. Your documents, portable equipment, jewelry, TV, refrigerator, etc. are covered. It does help you when you have to replace the interiors of house if your house is flooded, or has been burnt to ashes by break out of fire.

How does contents insurance work?
Have you ever wondered how you’d cope if you lost your valuables to fire, theft or damage from flooding? That’s what contents insurance is for – to provide financial protection if those things happen.

It covers all your personal belongings – anything not physically attached to the building – against the cost of loss or damage.
The other type is buildings insurance (which protects the structure of your house and its permanent fixtures). You can buy both types of insurance separately, or you can buy them as a joint home insurance policy.

Contents insurance is optional, whereas if you have a mortgage there is a requirement to have buildings insurance. But insuring your possessions is generally a sensible idea, whether you’re a tenant or the owner.

If you’re a tenant and want your possessions to be insured, it’s up to you to take out contents insurance, not the owner.

You’ll usually be covered against theft, fire and flood, but cover for accidental damage tends to be an optional extra.

Some insurance policies will also cover you for when you go abroad, so if you lose or damage your possessions while you’re away, you’ll be able to claim for them on your contents insurance. This is usually another optional extra that you add in return for a higher premium.

What types of contents insurance are there?
There are three main types of policies available:

 ‘Bedroom rated’ – the insurer works out the amount of contents cover you need (the ‘sum insured’) based on the number of bedrooms you have. These policies typically provide between £40,000 and £50,000 of cover as standard. This is usually enough for most houses, but make sure it’s enough to cover your possessions.

One is to search online for a contents calculator, which most comparison sites offer. Or, you can list everything that you own and add up what it would cost to replace every item at today’s prices.

Be aware that if you use a comparison site to shop around you might not be offered a choice – the site will ask you how much contents cover you want and will pick policies that offer this.

