home insurance:
What Is Homeowners Insurance?
Homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that covers losses and damages to an individual's residence, along with furnishings and other assets in the home. Homeowners insurance also provides liability coverage against accidents in the home or on the property.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
Homeowners insurance is a form of property insurance that covers losses and damages to an individual's house and assets in the home. 
The policy usually covers interior damage, exterior damage, loss or damage of personal assets, and injury that arises while on the property.
Every homeowners insurance policy has a liability limit, which determines the amount of coverage the insured has should an unfortunate incident occur.
Homeowners insurance should not be confused with a home warranty or with mortgage insurance. 

Understanding Homeowners Insurance
A homeowners insurance policy usually covers four kinds of incidents on the insured property: interior damage, exterior damage, loss or damage of personal assets/belongings, and injury that occurs while on the property. When a claim is made on any of these incidents, the homeowner will be required to pay a deductible, which in effect is the out-of-pocket costs for the insured.

Every homeowners insurance policy has a liability limit, which determines the amount of coverage the insured has should an unfortunate incident occur. The standard limits are usually set at $100,000, but the policyholder can opt for a higher limit. In the event that a claim is made, the liability limit stipulates the percentage of the coverage amount that would go toward replacing or repairing damage to the property structures, personal belongings, and costs to live somewhere else while the property is worked on.

Home Insurance Cover and its Advantages
 Having a house of your own is something that everyone dreams of. And there is no better feeling than when this dream comes true. Property is one of the most useful assets that anyone can own. But what many tend to neglect is securing that property.

Advantages of Home Insurance and Its Features
In simple words, home insurance is an agreement between a residential property owner, i.e. you, and a home insurance provider, wherein the latter offers protection to your house from any loss or damage that may occur due to an unforeseen situation. These home insurance companies not only provide risk coverage from damage caused to your house but also help you with the legal procedures and responsibilities concerning your property. Adding to this, home insurance covers losses and damages that mostly occur due to natural disasters and/or manmade misadventures. However, with the plethora of home insurance providers offering different plans and covers, you have the flexibility of choosing a cover that suits your requirements the best.

Property Insurance Coverage and Its Advantages
If you delegate home insurance to the protection of your house, you also have the option to increase its coverage and cover important belongings as well. With an increased scope, you can protect your jewellery, electronics, memorabilia, etc. as well from damage. After all, a home is much more than the four walls that form a house!

Benefits of Home Insurance
The primary function of any home insurance policy is to offer risk coverage. And based on this, here are the benefits that a property insurance cover offers –

1. Protection Towards the Structure of Your Home:
 

In cases where your home is damaged due to mishaps like fire, hurricane, hail, or any such similar disaster, then your home insurance provider will compensate you for rebuilding or repairing your house.

2. Protection Towards Your Personal Belongings:
Another advantage that comes with a home insurance cover is protection for your personal belongings, like furniture, electrical items, as well as electronic appliances that you may lose due to theft, fire, or any natural calamity that occurs.

3. Protection against Third Party Liability:
If in case your neighbour or any third party gets hurt, experiences loss or damage of their property because of you, your home insurance policy has got you covered. Though the amount being covered may differ depending upon your policy, home insurance will also help you with the legal expenses, in case there is an involvement of the court.

4. Living Cost Coverage:
In case your home is damaged due to a natural disaster or a manmade one, your insurance cover will take care of your additional living expenses. For example, if you shift your base to a lodge or a hotel till your home is repaired.